README.rst, before:

python-chess: a chess library for Python
========================================

.. image:: https://github.com/niklasf/python-chess/workflows/Test/badge.svg
    :target: https://github.com/niklasf/python-chess/actions
    :alt: Test status

.. image:: https://badge.fury.io/py/chess.svg
    :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/chess
    :alt: PyPI package

.. image:: https://readthedocs.org/projects/python-chess/badge/?version=latest
    :target: https://python-chess.readthedocs.io/en/latest/
    :alt: Docs

.. image:: https://badges.gitter.im/python-chess/community.svg
    :target: https://gitter.im/python-chess/community?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge
    :alt: Chat on Gitter

Introduction
------------

python-chess is a chess library for Python, with move generation,
move validation, and support for common formats. This is the Scholar's mate in
python-chess:

.. code:: python

    >>> import chess

    >>> board = chess.Board()

    >>> board.legal_moves  # doctest: +ELLIPSIS
    <LegalMoveGenerator at ... (Nh3, Nf3, Nc3, Na3, h3, g3, f3, e3, d3, c3, ...)>
    >>> chess.Move.from_uci("a8a1") in board.legal_moves
    False

    >>> board.push_san("e4")
    Move.from_uci('e2e4')
    >>> board.push_san("e5")
    Move.from_uci('e7e5')
    >>> board.push_san("Qh5")
    Move.from_uci('d1h5')
    >>> board.push_san("Nc6")
    Move.from_uci('b8c6')
    >>> board.push_san("Bc4")
    Move.from_uci('f1c4')
    >>> board.push_san("Nf6")
    Move.from_uci('g8f6')
    >>> board.push_san("Qxf7")
    Move.from_uci('h5f7')

    >>> board.is_checkmate()
    True

    >>> board
    Board('r1bqkb1r/pppp1Qpp/2n2n2/4p3/2B1P3/8/PPPP1PPP/RNB1K1NR b KQkq - 0 4')

Installing
----------

Requires Python 3.8+. Download and install the latest release:

::

    pip install chess


`Documentation <https://python-chess.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`__
--------------------------------------------------------------------

* `Core <https://python-chess.readthedocs.io/en/latest/core.html>`_
* `PGN parsing and writing <https://python-chess.readthedocs.io/en/latest/pgn.html>`_
* `Polyglot opening book reading <https://python-chess.readthedocs.io/en/latest/polyglot.html>`_
* `Gaviota endgame tablebase probing <https://python-chess.readthedocs.io/en/latest/gaviota.html>`_
* `Syzygy endgame tablebase probing <https://python-chess.readthedocs.io/en/latest/syzygy.html>`_
* `UCI/XBoard engine communication <https://python-chess.readthedocs.io/en/latest/engine.html>`_
* `Variants <https://python-chess.readthedocs.io/en/latest/variant.html>`_
* `Changelog <https://python-chess.readthedocs.io/en/latest/changelog.html>`_

Features
--------

* Includes mypy typings.

* IPython/Jupyter Notebook integration.
  `SVG rendering docs <https://python-chess.readthedocs.io/en/latest/svg.html>`_.

  .. code:: python

      >>> board  # doctest: +SKIP

  .. image:: https://backscattering.de/web-boardimage/board.png?fen=r1bqkb1r/pppp1Qpp/2n2n2/4p3/2B1P3/8/PPPP1PPP/RNB1K1NR&lastmove=h5f7&check=e8
      :alt: r1bqkb1r/pppp1Qpp/2n2n2/4p3/2B1P3/8/PPPP1PPP/RNB1K1NR

* Chess variants: Standard, Chess960, Suicide, Giveaway, Atomic,
  King of the Hill, Racing Kings, Horde, Three-check, Crazyhouse.
  `Variant docs <https://python-chess.readthedocs.io/en/latest/variant.html>`_.

* Make and unmake moves.

  .. code:: python

      >>> Nf3 = chess.Move.from_uci("g1f3")
      >>> board.push(Nf3)  # Make the move

      >>> board.pop()  # Unmake the last move
      Move.from_uci('g1f3')

* Show a simple ASCII board.

  .. code:: python

      >>> board = chess.Board("r1bqkb1r/pppp1Qpp/2n2n2/4p3/2B1P3/8/PPPP1PPP/RNB1K1NR b KQkq - 0 4")
      >>> print(board)
      r . b q k b . r
      p p p p . Q p p
      . . n . . n . .
      . . . . p . . .
      . . B . P . . .
      . . . . . . . .
      P P P P . P P P
      R N B . K . N R

* Detects checkmates, stalemates and draws by insufficient material.

  .. code:: python

      >>> board.is_stalemate()
      False
      >>> board.is_insufficient_material()
      False
      >>> board.outcome()
      Outcome(termination=<Termination.CHECKMATE: 1>, winner=True)

* Detects repetitions. Has a half-move clock.

  .. code:: python

      >>> board.can_claim_threefold_repetition()
      False
      >>> board.halfmove_clock
      0
      >>> board.can_claim_fifty_moves()
      False
      >>> board.can_claim_draw()
      False

  With the new rules from July 2014, a game ends as a draw (even without a
  claim) once a fivefold repetition occurs or if there are 75 moves without
  a pawn push or capture. Other ways of ending a game take precedence.

  .. code:: python

      >>> board.is_fivefold_repetition()
      False
      >>> board.is_seventyfive_moves()
      False

* Detects checks and attacks.

  .. code:: python

      >>> board.is_check()
      True
      >>> board.is_attacked_by(chess.WHITE, chess.E8)
      True

      >>> attackers = board.attackers(chess.WHITE, chess.F3)
      >>> attackers
      SquareSet(0x0000_0000_0000_4040)
      >>> chess.G2 in attackers
      True
      >>> print(attackers)
      . . . . . . . .
      . . . . . . . .
      . . . . . . . .
      . . . . . . . .
      . . . . . . . .
      . . . . . . . .
      . . . . . . 1 .
      . . . . . . 1 .

* Parses and creates SAN representation of moves.

  .. code:: python

      >>> board = chess.Board()
      >>> board.san(chess.Move(chess.E2, chess.E4))
      'e4'
      >>> board.parse_san('Nf3')
      Move.from_uci('g1f3')
      >>> board.variation_san([chess.Move.from_uci(m) for m in ["e2e4", "e7e5", "g1f3"]])
      '1. e4 e5 2. Nf3'

* Parses and creates FENs, extended FENs and Shredder FENs.

  .. code:: python

      >>> board.fen()
      'rnbqkbnr/pppppppp/8/8/8/8/PPPPPPPP/RNBQKBNR w KQkq - 0 1'
      >>> board.shredder_fen()
      'rnbqkbnr/pppppppp/8/8/8/8/PPPPPPPP/RNBQKBNR w HAha - 0 1'
      >>> board = chess.Board("8/8/8/2k5/4K3/8/8/8 w - - 4 45")
      >>> board.piece_at(chess.C5)
      Piece.from_symbol('k')

* Parses and creates EPDs.

  .. code:: python

      >>> board = chess.Board()
      >>> board.epd(bm=board.parse_uci("d2d4"))
      'rnbqkbnr/pppppppp/8/8/8/8/PPPPPPPP/RNBQKBNR w KQkq - bm d4;'

      >>> ops = board.set_epd("1k1r4/pp1b1R2/3q2pp/4p3/2B5/4Q3/PPP2B2/2K5 b - - bm Qd1+; id \"BK.01\";")
      >>> ops == {'bm': [chess.Move.from_uci('d6d1')], 'id': 'BK.01'}
      True

* Detects `absolute pins and their directions <https://python-chess.readthedocs.io/en/latest/core.html#chess.Board.pin>`_.

* Reads Polyglot opening books.
  `Docs <https://python-chess.readthedocs.io/en/latest/polyglot.html>`__.

  .. code:: python

      >>> import chess.polyglot

      >>> book = chess.polyglot.open_reader("data/polyglot/performance.bin")

      >>> board = chess.Board()
      >>> main_entry = book.find(board)
      >>> main_entry.move
      Move.from_uci('e2e4')
      >>> main_entry.weight
      1

      >>> book.close()

* Reads and writes PGNs. Supports headers, comments, NAGs and a tree of
  variations.
  `Docs <https://python-chess.readthedocs.io/en/latest/pgn.html>`__.

  .. code:: python

      >>> import chess.pgn

      >>> with open("data/pgn/molinari-bordais-1979.pgn") as pgn:
      ...     first_game = chess.pgn.read_game(pgn)

      >>> first_game.headers["White"]
      'Molinari'
      >>> first_game.headers["Black"]
      'Bordais'

      >>> first_game.mainline()  # doctest: +ELLIPSIS
      <Mainline at ... (1. e4 c5 2. c4 Nc6 3. Ne2 Nf6 4. Nbc3 Nb4 5. g3 Nd3#)>

      >>> first_game.headers["Result"]
      '0-1'

* Probe Gaviota endgame tablebases (DTM, WDL).
  `Docs <https://python-chess.readthedocs.io/en/latest/gaviota.html>`__.

* Probe Syzygy endgame tablebases (DTZ, WDL).
  `Docs <https://python-chess.readthedocs.io/en/latest/syzygy.html>`__.

  .. code:: python

      >>> import chess.syzygy

      >>> tablebase = chess.syzygy.open_tablebase("data/syzygy/regular")

      >>> # Black to move is losing in 53 half moves (distance to zero) in this
      >>> # KNBvK endgame.
      >>> board = chess.Board("8/2K5/4B3/3N4/8/8/4k3/8 b - - 0 1")
      >>> tablebase.probe_dtz(board)
      -53

      >>> tablebase.close()

* Communicate with UCI/XBoard engines. Based on ``asyncio``.
  `Docs <https://python-chess.readthedocs.io/en/latest/engine.html>`__.

  .. code:: python

      >>> import chess.engine

      >>> engine = chess.engine.SimpleEngine.popen_uci("stockfish")

      >>> board = chess.Board("1k1r4/pp1b1R2/3q2pp/4p3/2B5/4Q3/PPP2B2/2K5 b - - 0 1")
      >>> limit = chess.engine.Limit(time=2.0)
      >>> engine.play(board, limit)  # doctest: +ELLIPSIS
      <PlayResult at ... (move=d6d1, ponder=c1d1, info={...}, draw_offered=False, resigned=False)>

      >>> engine.quit()

Selected projects
-----------------

If you like, share interesting things you are using python-chess for, for example:

+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| .. image:: https://github.com/niklasf/python-chess/blob/master/docs/images/syzygy.png?raw=true       | https://syzygy-tables.info/                                                                  |
|     :height: 64                                                                                      |                                                                                              |
|     :width: 64                                                                                       |                                                                                              |
|     :target: https://syzygy-tables.info/                                                             | A website to probe Syzygy endgame tablebases                                                 |
+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| .. image:: https://github.com/niklasf/python-chess/blob/master/docs/images/maia.png?raw=true         | https://maiachess.com/                                                                       |
|     :height: 64                                                                                      |                                                                                              |
|     :width: 64                                                                                       |                                                                                              |
|     :target: https://maiachess.com/                                                                  | A human-like neural network chess engine                                                     |
+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| .. image:: https://github.com/niklasf/python-chess/blob/master/docs/images/clente-chess.png?raw=true | `clente/chess <https://github.com/clente/chess>`_                                            |
|     :height: 64                                                                                      |                                                                                              |
|     :width: 64                                                                                       |                                                                                              |
|     :target: https://github.com/clente/chess                                                         | Oppinionated wrapper to use python-chess from the R programming language                     |
+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| .. image:: https://github.com/niklasf/python-chess/blob/master/docs/images/crazyara.png?raw=true     | https://crazyara.org/                                                                        |
|     :height: 64                                                                                      |                                                                                              |
|     :width: 64                                                                                       |                                                                                              |
|     :target: https://crazyara.org/                                                                   | Deep learning for Crazyhouse                                                                 |
+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| .. image:: https://github.com/niklasf/python-chess/blob/master/docs/images/jcchess.png?raw=true      | `http://johncheetham.com <http://johncheetham.com/projects/jcchess/>`_                       |
|     :height: 64                                                                                      |                                                                                              |
|     :width: 64                                                                                       |                                                                                              |
|     :target: http://johncheetham.com/projects/jcchess/                                               | A GUI to play against UCI chess engines                                                      |
+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| .. image:: https://github.com/niklasf/python-chess/blob/master/docs/images/pettingzoo.png?raw=true   | `https://pettingzoo.farama.org <https://pettingzoo.farama.org/environments/classic/chess/>`_ |
|     :width: 64                                                                                       |                                                                                              |
|     :height: 64                                                                                      |                                                                                              |
|     :target: https://pettingzoo.farama.org/environments/classic/chess/                               | A multi-agent reinforcement learning environment                                             |
+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| .. image:: https://github.com/niklasf/python-chess/blob/master/docs/images/cli-chess.png?raw=true    | `cli-chess <https://github.com/trevorbayless/cli-chess>`_                                    |
|     :width: 64                                                                                       |                                                                                              |
|     :height: 64                                                                                      |                                                                                              |
|     :target: https://github.com/trevorbayless/cli-chess                                              | A highly customizable way to play chess in your terminal                                     |
+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

* extensions to build engines (search and evaluation) – https://github.com/Mk-Chan/python-chess-engine-extensions
* a stand-alone chess computer based on DGT board – https://picochess.com/
* a bridge between Lichess API and chess engines – https://github.com/lichess-bot-devs/lichess-bot
* a command-line PGN annotator – https://github.com/rpdelaney/python-chess-annotator
* an HTTP microservice to render board images – https://github.com/niklasf/web-boardimage
* building a toy chess engine with alpha-beta pruning, piece-square tables, and move ordering – https://healeycodes.com/building-my-own-chess-engine/
* a JIT compiled chess engine – https://github.com/SamRagusa/Batch-First
* teaching Cognitive Science – `https://jupyter.brynmawr.edu <https://jupyter.brynmawr.edu/services/public/dblank/CS371%20Cognitive%20Science/2016-Fall/Programming%20a%20Chess%20Player.ipynb>`_
* an `Alexa skill to play blindfold chess <https://www.amazon.com/Laynr-blindfold-chess/dp/B0859QF8YL>`_ – https://github.com/laynr/blindfold-chess
* a chessboard widget for PySide2 – https://github.com/H-a-y-k/hichesslib
* Django Rest Framework API for multiplayer chess – https://github.com/WorkShoft/capablanca-api
* a `browser based PGN viewer <https://about.nmstoker.com/chess2.html>`_ written in PyScript – https://github.com/nmstoker/ChessMatchViewer
* an accessible chessboard that allows blind and visually impaired  players  to play chess against Stockfish – https://github.com/blindpandas/chessmart
* a web-based chess vision exercise – https://github.com/3d12/rookognition


Prior art
---------

Thanks to the Stockfish authors and thanks to Sam Tannous for publishing his
approach to `avoid rotated bitboards with direct lookup (PDF) <http://arxiv.org/pdf/0704.3773.pdf>`_
alongside his GPL2+ engine `Shatranj <https://github.com/stannous/shatranj>`_.
Some move generation ideas are taken from these sources.

Thanks to Ronald de Man for his
`Syzygy endgame tablebases <https://github.com/syzygy1/tb>`_.
The probing code in python-chess is very directly ported from his C probing code.

Thanks to `Kristian Glass <https://github.com/doismellburning>`_ for
transferring the namespace ``chess`` on PyPI.

License
-------

python-chess is licensed under the GPL 3 (or any later version at your option).
Check out ``LICENSE.txt`` for the full text.

Commit message:

Added rudimentary to-do list alongside adding darkchess class

README.rst, after:

python-chess: a chess library for Python
========================================

.. image:: https://github.com/niklasf/python-chess/workflows/Test/badge.svg
    :target: https://github.com/niklasf/python-chess/actions
    :alt: Test status

.. image:: https://badge.fury.io/py/chess.svg
    :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/chess
    :alt: PyPI package

.. image:: https://readthedocs.org/projects/python-chess/badge/?version=latest
    :target: https://python-chess.readthedocs.io/en/latest/
    :alt: Docs

.. image:: https://badges.gitter.im/python-chess/community.svg
    :target: https://gitter.im/python-chess/community?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge
    :alt: Chat on Gitter

Implementing Dark Chess as a Variant in order to build a bot on top of the interface
-------
To-Do List:
- [ ] Implement DarkChess class in variants
  - [ ] Make the chess.svg.board display the Dark Chess board correctly, as its the only chess variant with a different base board (fog)
    - [ ] Implement dark board class and flag for svg.py
- [ ] Figure out how to make UCI engine input work 
  - [ ] Test with 'mock' engine with one move and see if it can take the input correctly/stockfish lol


Introduction
------------

python-chess is a chess library for Python, with move generation,
move validation, and support for common formats. This is the Scholar's mate in
python-chess:

.. code:: python

    >>> import chess

    >>> board = chess.Board()

    >>> board.legal_moves  # doctest: +ELLIPSIS
    <LegalMoveGenerator at ... (Nh3, Nf3, Nc3, Na3, h3, g3, f3, e3, d3, c3, ...)>
    >>> chess.Move.from_uci("a8a1") in board.legal_moves
    False

    >>> board.push_san("e4")
    Move.from_uci('e2e4')
    >>> board.push_san("e5")
    Move.from_uci('e7e5')
    >>> board.push_san("Qh5")
    Move.from_uci('d1h5')
    >>> board.push_san("Nc6")
    Move.from_uci('b8c6')
    >>> board.push_san("Bc4")
    Move.from_uci('f1c4')
    >>> board.push_san("Nf6")
    Move.from_uci('g8f6')
    >>> board.push_san("Qxf7")
    Move.from_uci('h5f7')

    >>> board.is_checkmate()
    True

    >>> board
    Board('r1bqkb1r/pppp1Qpp/2n2n2/4p3/2B1P3/8/PPPP1PPP/RNB1K1NR b KQkq - 0 4')

Installing
----------

Requires Python 3.8+. Download and install the latest release:

::

    pip install chess


`Documentation <https://python-chess.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`__
--------------------------------------------------------------------

* `Core <https://python-chess.readthedocs.io/en/latest/core.html>`_
* `PGN parsing and writing <https://python-chess.readthedocs.io/en/latest/pgn.html>`_
* `Polyglot opening book reading <https://python-chess.readthedocs.io/en/latest/polyglot.html>`_
* `Gaviota endgame tablebase probing <https://python-chess.readthedocs.io/en/latest/gaviota.html>`_
* `Syzygy endgame tablebase probing <https://python-chess.readthedocs.io/en/latest/syzygy.html>`_
* `UCI/XBoard engine communication <https://python-chess.readthedocs.io/en/latest/engine.html>`_
* `Variants <https://python-chess.readthedocs.io/en/latest/variant.html>`_
* `Changelog <https://python-chess.readthedocs.io/en/latest/changelog.html>`_

Features
--------

* Includes mypy typings.

* IPython/Jupyter Notebook integration.
  `SVG rendering docs <https://python-chess.readthedocs.io/en/latest/svg.html>`_.

  .. code:: python

      >>> board  # doctest: +SKIP

  .. image:: https://backscattering.de/web-boardimage/board.png?fen=r1bqkb1r/pppp1Qpp/2n2n2/4p3/2B1P3/8/PPPP1PPP/RNB1K1NR&lastmove=h5f7&check=e8
      :alt: r1bqkb1r/pppp1Qpp/2n2n2/4p3/2B1P3/8/PPPP1PPP/RNB1K1NR

* Chess variants: Standard, Chess960, Suicide, Giveaway, Atomic,
  King of the Hill, Racing Kings, Horde, Three-check, Crazyhouse.
  `Variant docs <https://python-chess.readthedocs.io/en/latest/variant.html>`_.

* Make and unmake moves.

  .. code:: python

      >>> Nf3 = chess.Move.from_uci("g1f3")
      >>> board.push(Nf3)  # Make the move

      >>> board.pop()  # Unmake the last move
      Move.from_uci('g1f3')

* Show a simple ASCII board.

  .. code:: python

      >>> board = chess.Board("r1bqkb1r/pppp1Qpp/2n2n2/4p3/2B1P3/8/PPPP1PPP/RNB1K1NR b KQkq - 0 4")
      >>> print(board)
      r . b q k b . r
      p p p p . Q p p
      . . n . . n . .
      . . . . p . . .
      . . B . P . . .
      . . . . . . . .
      P P P P . P P P
      R N B . K . N R

* Detects checkmates, stalemates and draws by insufficient material.

  .. code:: python

      >>> board.is_stalemate()
      False
      >>> board.is_insufficient_material()
      False
      >>> board.outcome()
      Outcome(termination=<Termination.CHECKMATE: 1>, winner=True)

* Detects repetitions. Has a half-move clock.

  .. code:: python

      >>> board.can_claim_threefold_repetition()
      False
      >>> board.halfmove_clock
      0
      >>> board.can_claim_fifty_moves()
      False
      >>> board.can_claim_draw()
      False

  With the new rules from July 2014, a game ends as a draw (even without a
  claim) once a fivefold repetition occurs or if there are 75 moves without
  a pawn push or capture. Other ways of ending a game take precedence.

  .. code:: python

      >>> board.is_fivefold_repetition()
      False
      >>> board.is_seventyfive_moves()
      False

* Detects checks and attacks.

  .. code:: python

      >>> board.is_check()
      True
      >>> board.is_attacked_by(chess.WHITE, chess.E8)
      True

      >>> attackers = board.attackers(chess.WHITE, chess.F3)
      >>> attackers
      SquareSet(0x0000_0000_0000_4040)
      >>> chess.G2 in attackers
      True
      >>> print(attackers)
      . . . . . . . .
      . . . . . . . .
      . . . . . . . .
      . . . . . . . .
      . . . . . . . .
      . . . . . . . .
      . . . . . . 1 .
      . . . . . . 1 .

* Parses and creates SAN representation of moves.

  .. code:: python

      >>> board = chess.Board()
      >>> board.san(chess.Move(chess.E2, chess.E4))
      'e4'
      >>> board.parse_san('Nf3')
      Move.from_uci('g1f3')
      >>> board.variation_san([chess.Move.from_uci(m) for m in ["e2e4", "e7e5", "g1f3"]])
      '1. e4 e5 2. Nf3'

* Parses and creates FENs, extended FENs and Shredder FENs.

  .. code:: python

      >>> board.fen()
      'rnbqkbnr/pppppppp/8/8/8/8/PPPPPPPP/RNBQKBNR w KQkq - 0 1'
      >>> board.shredder_fen()
      'rnbqkbnr/pppppppp/8/8/8/8/PPPPPPPP/RNBQKBNR w HAha - 0 1'
      >>> board = chess.Board("8/8/8/2k5/4K3/8/8/8 w - - 4 45")
      >>> board.piece_at(chess.C5)
      Piece.from_symbol('k')

* Parses and creates EPDs.

  .. code:: python

      >>> board = chess.Board()
      >>> board.epd(bm=board.parse_uci("d2d4"))
      'rnbqkbnr/pppppppp/8/8/8/8/PPPPPPPP/RNBQKBNR w KQkq - bm d4;'

      >>> ops = board.set_epd("1k1r4/pp1b1R2/3q2pp/4p3/2B5/4Q3/PPP2B2/2K5 b - - bm Qd1+; id \"BK.01\";")
      >>> ops == {'bm': [chess.Move.from_uci('d6d1')], 'id': 'BK.01'}
      True

* Detects `absolute pins and their directions <https://python-chess.readthedocs.io/en/latest/core.html#chess.Board.pin>`_.

* Reads Polyglot opening books.
  `Docs <https://python-chess.readthedocs.io/en/latest/polyglot.html>`__.

  .. code:: python

      >>> import chess.polyglot

      >>> book = chess.polyglot.open_reader("data/polyglot/performance.bin")

      >>> board = chess.Board()
      >>> main_entry = book.find(board)
      >>> main_entry.move
      Move.from_uci('e2e4')
      >>> main_entry.weight
      1

      >>> book.close()

* Reads and writes PGNs. Supports headers, comments, NAGs and a tree of
  variations.
  `Docs <https://python-chess.readthedocs.io/en/latest/pgn.html>`__.

  .. code:: python

      >>> import chess.pgn

      >>> with open("data/pgn/molinari-bordais-1979.pgn") as pgn:
      ...     first_game = chess.pgn.read_game(pgn)

      >>> first_game.headers["White"]
      'Molinari'
      >>> first_game.headers["Black"]
      'Bordais'

      >>> first_game.mainline()  # doctest: +ELLIPSIS
      <Mainline at ... (1. e4 c5 2. c4 Nc6 3. Ne2 Nf6 4. Nbc3 Nb4 5. g3 Nd3#)>

      >>> first_game.headers["Result"]
      '0-1'

* Probe Gaviota endgame tablebases (DTM, WDL).
  `Docs <https://python-chess.readthedocs.io/en/latest/gaviota.html>`__.

* Probe Syzygy endgame tablebases (DTZ, WDL).
  `Docs <https://python-chess.readthedocs.io/en/latest/syzygy.html>`__.

  .. code:: python

      >>> import chess.syzygy

      >>> tablebase = chess.syzygy.open_tablebase("data/syzygy/regular")

      >>> # Black to move is losing in 53 half moves (distance to zero) in this
      >>> # KNBvK endgame.
      >>> board = chess.Board("8/2K5/4B3/3N4/8/8/4k3/8 b - - 0 1")
      >>> tablebase.probe_dtz(board)
      -53

      >>> tablebase.close()

* Communicate with UCI/XBoard engines. Based on ``asyncio``.
  `Docs <https://python-chess.readthedocs.io/en/latest/engine.html>`__.

  .. code:: python

      >>> import chess.engine

      >>> engine = chess.engine.SimpleEngine.popen_uci("stockfish")

      >>> board = chess.Board("1k1r4/pp1b1R2/3q2pp/4p3/2B5/4Q3/PPP2B2/2K5 b - - 0 1")
      >>> limit = chess.engine.Limit(time=2.0)
      >>> engine.play(board, limit)  # doctest: +ELLIPSIS
      <PlayResult at ... (move=d6d1, ponder=c1d1, info={...}, draw_offered=False, resigned=False)>

      >>> engine.quit()

Selected projects
-----------------

If you like, share interesting things you are using python-chess for, for example:

+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| .. image:: https://github.com/niklasf/python-chess/blob/master/docs/images/syzygy.png?raw=true       | https://syzygy-tables.info/                                                                  |
|     :height: 64                                                                                      |                                                                                              |
|     :width: 64                                                                                       |                                                                                              |
|     :target: https://syzygy-tables.info/                                                             | A website to probe Syzygy endgame tablebases                                                 |
+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| .. image:: https://github.com/niklasf/python-chess/blob/master/docs/images/maia.png?raw=true         | https://maiachess.com/                                                                       |
|     :height: 64                                                                                      |                                                                                              |
|     :width: 64                                                                                       |                                                                                              |
|     :target: https://maiachess.com/                                                                  | A human-like neural network chess engine                                                     |
+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| .. image:: https://github.com/niklasf/python-chess/blob/master/docs/images/clente-chess.png?raw=true | `clente/chess <https://github.com/clente/chess>`_                                            |
|     :height: 64                                                                                      |                                                                                              |
|     :width: 64                                                                                       |                                                                                              |
|     :target: https://github.com/clente/chess                                                         | Oppinionated wrapper to use python-chess from the R programming language                     |
+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| .. image:: https://github.com/niklasf/python-chess/blob/master/docs/images/crazyara.png?raw=true     | https://crazyara.org/                                                                        |
|     :height: 64                                                                                      |                                                                                              |
|     :width: 64                                                                                       |                                                                                              |
|     :target: https://crazyara.org/                                                                   | Deep learning for Crazyhouse                                                                 |
+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| .. image:: https://github.com/niklasf/python-chess/blob/master/docs/images/jcchess.png?raw=true      | `http://johncheetham.com <http://johncheetham.com/projects/jcchess/>`_                       |
|     :height: 64                                                                                      |                                                                                              |
|     :width: 64                                                                                       |                                                                                              |
|     :target: http://johncheetham.com/projects/jcchess/                                               | A GUI to play against UCI chess engines                                                      |
+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| .. image:: https://github.com/niklasf/python-chess/blob/master/docs/images/pettingzoo.png?raw=true   | `https://pettingzoo.farama.org <https://pettingzoo.farama.org/environments/classic/chess/>`_ |
|     :width: 64                                                                                       |                                                                                              |
|     :height: 64                                                                                      |                                                                                              |
|     :target: https://pettingzoo.farama.org/environments/classic/chess/                               | A multi-agent reinforcement learning environment                                             |
+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| .. image:: https://github.com/niklasf/python-chess/blob/master/docs/images/cli-chess.png?raw=true    | `cli-chess <https://github.com/trevorbayless/cli-chess>`_                                    |
|     :width: 64                                                                                       |                                                                                              |
|     :height: 64                                                                                      |                                                                                              |
|     :target: https://github.com/trevorbayless/cli-chess                                              | A highly customizable way to play chess in your terminal                                     |
+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

* extensions to build engines (search and evaluation) – https://github.com/Mk-Chan/python-chess-engine-extensions
* a stand-alone chess computer based on DGT board – https://picochess.com/
* a bridge between Lichess API and chess engines – https://github.com/lichess-bot-devs/lichess-bot
* a command-line PGN annotator – https://github.com/rpdelaney/python-chess-annotator
* an HTTP microservice to render board images – https://github.com/niklasf/web-boardimage
* building a toy chess engine with alpha-beta pruning, piece-square tables, and move ordering – https://healeycodes.com/building-my-own-chess-engine/
* a JIT compiled chess engine – https://github.com/SamRagusa/Batch-First
* teaching Cognitive Science – `https://jupyter.brynmawr.edu <https://jupyter.brynmawr.edu/services/public/dblank/CS371%20Cognitive%20Science/2016-Fall/Programming%20a%20Chess%20Player.ipynb>`_
* an `Alexa skill to play blindfold chess <https://www.amazon.com/Laynr-blindfold-chess/dp/B0859QF8YL>`_ – https://github.com/laynr/blindfold-chess
* a chessboard widget for PySide2 – https://github.com/H-a-y-k/hichesslib
* Django Rest Framework API for multiplayer chess – https://github.com/WorkShoft/capablanca-api
* a `browser based PGN viewer <https://about.nmstoker.com/chess2.html>`_ written in PyScript – https://github.com/nmstoker/ChessMatchViewer
* an accessible chessboard that allows blind and visually impaired  players  to play chess against Stockfish – https://github.com/blindpandas/chessmart
* a web-based chess vision exercise – https://github.com/3d12/rookognition


Prior art
---------

Thanks to the Stockfish authors and thanks to Sam Tannous for publishing his
approach to `avoid rotated bitboards with direct lookup (PDF) <http://arxiv.org/pdf/0704.3773.pdf>`_
alongside his GPL2+ engine `Shatranj <https://github.com/stannous/shatranj>`_.
Some move generation ideas are taken from these sources.

Thanks to Ronald de Man for his
`Syzygy endgame tablebases <https://github.com/syzygy1/tb>`_.
The probing code in python-chess is very directly ported from his C probing code.

Thanks to `Kristian Glass <https://github.com/doismellburning>`_ for
transferring the namespace ``chess`` on PyPI.

License
-------

python-chess is licensed under the GPL 3 (or any later version at your option).
Check out ``LICENSE.txt`` for the full text.
